welcome to runescape behind-the-scenes
this week we've got info on two very
exciting updates hitting the game soon
those being a very special Diamond
Jubilee cryptic clue fest and we talked
to developers behind the evolution of
combat we'll learn about how you can
fight like never before in a minute but
first there's a very special guest
coming to varrock by unicorn torn
carriage and you can be a part of the
celebrations that is if you could help
out SJ from the gyllenhaal tourist board
to keep the party fully stocked and also
notice a few changes to the town of
Barak all stray dogs will be removed
more guards will be posted around
telling citizens to be on their best
behavior and there's a big street party
that everybody is invited to three new
stores have also set up shop many coop
will be there looking after the corgis
bangers and mash will be purveying
exotic new foods including something
called fish and chips and William shaken
spear will have some souvenirs to flog
to get you in the celebratory spirit
they might be a need to some help too so
make sure you stop by and say hello
with so many visitors flocking to the
area for the big occasion the town is
already running out of supplies and
that's where you can lend a hand in
return to some very special rewards
speak to Beefeater big ben and your
quest will begin to solve increasingly
challenging clues until the party
planning is finally complete only then
will the town be ready to receive the
royal visitor in all her glory cryptic
clue festival begins on June the 1st
featuring five clues for you to solve
over the whole week and you can check
out Barack's party atmosphere from May
the 29th
combat is a large part of any MMO but
runescape is about to undergo a large
combat rework that would change the way
the game is played forever madre 'the
mod mark and mod kriselle tell us more
about the evolution of combat so
currently the way that people play
runescape is that they spend a lot of
time navigating between different
interfaces that's something we really
like to change so that the action is all
about the gameplay back 10 years ago
they just didn't have the same tools in
our programming language that we do now
and now we've got these new tools we can
totally go in and make the game we want
to make we've got a redo every single
bit of code you can imagine every item
in the game every NPC in the game every
boss a request we are bringing in and
the concept of an action bar you most in
this and other games on and offline we
can put anything we want on this bar
it's not just limited to the combat
update although there will be some
specific combat abilities on there which
will touch on in the future when we give
more information about the combat stuff
out you can't put anything that exists
on that the moments of quick prayers
prayers themselves emotes items you can
scale with it you can get logs and then
if I make anything you can imagine can
go on there at the moment it really does
stream like the entire process and means
you spend less time fighting the
interface and it's all there right in
front of you we're not talking about a
tiny little update we're talking about
one of the biggest updates we've ever
worked on in the history of the game
we've got loads more content coming out
reveals of lots of content coming out in
the future behind the scenes videos and
you can sign up to the beta to try it
for yourself from the 1st of June for
more details check out runescape comm
and that's it for behind the scenes this
week join us next week as we take the
first in-game look at our evolution of
combat and bring you news on an update
to the popular distraction and diversion
fish flingers